documentation/examples.rst, before:

.. _examples:

==========
 Examples
==========


Miniterm
========
Miniterm is now available as module instead of example.
see :ref:`miniterm` for details.

miniterm.py_
    The miniterm program.

setup-miniterm-py2exe.py_
    This is a py2exe setup script for Windows. It can be used to create a
    standalone ``miniterm.exe``.

.. _miniterm.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/serial/tools/miniterm.py
.. _setup-miniterm-py2exe.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/setup-miniterm-py2exe.py


TCP/IP - serial bridge
======================
This program opens a TCP/IP port. When a connection is made to that port (e.g.
with telnet) it forwards all data to the serial port and vice versa.

This example only exports a raw socket connection. The next example
below gives the client much more control over the remote serial port.

- The serial port settings are set on the command line when starting the
  program.
- There is no possibility to change settings from remote.
- All data is passed through as-is.

::

    usage: tcp_serial_redirect.py [-h] [-q] [--parity {N,E,O,S,M}] [--rtscts]
                                  [--xonxoff] [--rts RTS] [--dtr DTR]
                                  [-P LOCALPORT]
                                  SERIALPORT [BAUDRATE]

    Simple Serial to Network (TCP/IP) redirector.

    positional arguments:
      SERIALPORT            serial port name
      BAUDRATE              set baud rate, default: 9600

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -q, --quiet           suppress non error messages

    serial port:
      --parity {N,E,O,S,M}  set parity, one of {N E O S M}, default: N
      --rtscts              enable RTS/CTS flow control (default off)
      --xonxoff             enable software flow control (default off)
      --rts RTS             set initial RTS line state (possible values: 0, 1)
      --dtr DTR             set initial DTR line state (possible values: 0, 1)

    network settings:
      -P LOCALPORT, --localport LOCALPORT
                            local TCP port

    NOTE: no security measures are implemented. Anyone can remotely connect to
    this service over the network. Only one connection at once is supported. When
    the connection is terminated it waits for the next connect.


tcp_serial_redirect.py_
    Main program.

.. _tcp_serial_redirect.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/tcp_serial_redirect.py


Single-port TCP/IP - serial bridge (RFC 2217)
=============================================
Simple cross platform :rfc:`2217` serial port server. It uses threads and is
portable (runs on POSIX, Windows, etc).

- The port settings and control lines (RTS/DTR) can be changed at any time
  using :rfc:`2217` requests. The status lines (DSR/CTS/RI/CD) are polled every
  second and notifications are sent to the client.
- Telnet character IAC (0xff) needs to be doubled in data stream. IAC followed
  by another value is interpreted as Telnet command sequence.
- Telnet negotiation commands are sent when connecting to the server.
- RTS/DTR are activated on client connect and deactivated on disconnect.
- Default port settings are set again when client disconnects.

::

    usage: rfc2217_server.py [-h] [-p TCPPORT] [-v] SERIALPORT

    RFC 2217 Serial to Network (TCP/IP) redirector.

    positional arguments:
      SERIALPORT

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -p TCPPORT, --localport TCPPORT
                            local TCP port, default: 2217
      -v, --verbose         print more diagnostic messages (option can be given
                            multiple times)

    NOTE: no security measures are implemented. Anyone can remotely connect to
    this service over the network. Only one connection at once is supported. When
    the connection is terminated it waits for the next connect.

.. versionadded:: 2.5

rfc2217_server.py_
    Main program.

setup-rfc2217_server-py2exe.py_
    This is a py2exe setup script for Windows. It can be used to create a
    standalone ``rfc2217_server.exe``.

.. _rfc2217_server.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/rfc2217_server.py
.. _setup-rfc2217_server-py2exe.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/setup-rfc2217_server-py2exe.py


Multi-port TCP/IP - serial bridge (RFC 2217)
============================================
This example implements a TCP/IP to serial port service that works with
multiple ports at once. It uses select, no threads, for the serial ports and
the network sockets and therefore runs on POSIX systems only.

- Full control over the serial port with :rfc:`2217`.
- Check existence of ``/tty/USB0...8``. This is done every 5 seconds using
  ``os.path.exists``.
- Send zeroconf announcements when port appears or disappears (uses
  python-avahi and dbus). Service name: ``_serial_port._tcp``.
- Each serial port becomes available as one TCP/IP server. e.g.
  ``/dev/ttyUSB0`` is reachable at ``<host>:7000``.
- Single process for all ports and sockets (not per port).
- The script can be started as daemon.
- Logging to stdout or when run as daemon to syslog.
- Default port settings are set again when client disconnects.
- modem status lines (CTS/DSR/RI/CD) are not polled periodically and the server
  therefore does not send NOTIFY_MODEMSTATE on its own. However it responds to
  request from the client (i.e. use the ``poll_modem`` option in the URL when
  using a pySerial client.)

::

    usage: port_publisher.py [options]

    Announce the existence of devices using zeroconf and provide
    a TCP/IP <-> serial port gateway (implements RFC 2217).

    If running as daemon, write to syslog. Otherwise write to stdout.

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit

    serial port settings:
      --ports-regex REGEX   specify a regex to search against the serial devices
                            and their descriptions (default: /dev/ttyUSB[0-9]+)

    network settings:
      --tcp-port PORT       specify lowest TCP port number (default: 7000)

    daemon:
      -d, --daemon          start as daemon
      --pidfile FILE        specify a name for the PID file

    diagnostics:
      -o FILE, --logfile FILE
                            write messages file instead of stdout
      -q, --quiet           suppress most diagnostic messages
      -v, --verbose         increase diagnostic messages

    NOTE: no security measures are implemented. Anyone can remotely connect to
    this service over the network. Only one connection at once, per port, is
    supported. When the connection is terminated, it waits for the next connect.

Requirements:

- Python (>= 2.4)
- python-avahi
- python-dbus
- python-serial (>= 2.5)

Installation as daemon:

- Copy the script ``port_publisher.py`` to ``/usr/local/bin``.
- Copy the script ``port_publisher.sh`` to ``/etc/init.d``.
- Add links to the runlevels using ``update-rc.d port_publisher.sh defaults 99``
- That's it :-) the service will be started on next reboot. Alternatively run
  ``invoke-rc.d port_publisher.sh start`` as root.

.. versionadded:: 2.5 new example

port_publisher.py_
    Multi-port TCP/IP-serial converter (RFC 2217) for POSIX environments.

port_publisher.sh_
    Example init.d script.

.. _port_publisher.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/port_publisher.py
.. _port_publisher.sh: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/port_publisher.sh


wxPython examples
=================
A simple terminal application for wxPython and a flexible serial port
configuration dialog are shown here.

wxTerminal.py_
    A simple terminal application. Note that the length of the buffer is
    limited by wx and it may suddenly stop displaying new input.

wxTerminal.wxg_
    A wxGlade design file for the terminal application.

wxSerialConfigDialog.py_
    A flexible serial port configuration dialog.

wxSerialConfigDialog.wxg_
    The wxGlade design file for the configuration dialog.

setup-wxTerminal-py2exe.py_
    A py2exe setup script to package the terminal application.

.. _wxTerminal.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/wxTerminal.py
.. _wxTerminal.wxg: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/wxTerminal.wxg
.. _wxSerialConfigDialog.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/wxSerialConfigDialog.py
.. _wxSerialConfigDialog.wxg: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/wxSerialConfigDialog.wxg
.. _setup-wxTerminal-py2exe.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/setup-wxTerminal-py2exe.py



Unit tests
==========
The project uses a number of unit test to verify the functionality. They all
need a loop back connector. The scripts itself contain more information. All
test scripts are contained in the directory ``test``.

The unit tests are performed on port ``loop://`` unless a different device
name or URL is given on the command line (``sys.argv[1]``). e.g. to run the
test on an attached USB-serial converter ``hwgrep://USB`` could be used or
the actual name such as ``/dev/ttyUSB0`` or ``COM1`` (depending on platform).

run_all_tests.py_
    Collect all tests from all ``test*`` files and run them. By default, the
    ``loop://`` device is used.

test.py_
    Basic tests (binary capabilities, timeout, control lines).

test_advanced.py_
    Test more advanced features (properties).

test_high_load.py_
    Tests involving sending a lot of data.

test_readline.py_
    Tests involving ``readline``.

test_iolib.py_
    Tests involving the :mod:`io` library. Only available for Python 2.6 and
    newer.

test_url.py_
    Tests involving the :ref:`URL <URLs>` feature.

.. _run_all_tests.py:  https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/run_all_tests.py
.. _test.py:           https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test.py
.. _test_advanced.py:  https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test_advanced.py
.. _test_high_load.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test_high_load.py
.. _test_readline.py:  https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test_readline.py
.. _test_iolib.py:     https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test_iolib.py
.. _test_url.py:       https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test_url.py

Commit message:

Add example for listing serial ports

documentation/examples.rst, after:

.. _examples:

==========
 Examples
==========


List all available serial ports
===============================

This can be done by importing ``comports`` from ``serial.tools.list_ports``:

::

    from serial.tools.list_ports import comports
    for port in comports():
        print(port)


Miniterm
========
Miniterm is now available as module instead of example.
see :ref:`miniterm` for details.

miniterm.py_
    The miniterm program.

setup-miniterm-py2exe.py_
    This is a py2exe setup script for Windows. It can be used to create a
    standalone ``miniterm.exe``.

.. _miniterm.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/serial/tools/miniterm.py
.. _setup-miniterm-py2exe.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/setup-miniterm-py2exe.py


TCP/IP - serial bridge
======================
This program opens a TCP/IP port. When a connection is made to that port (e.g.
with telnet) it forwards all data to the serial port and vice versa.

This example only exports a raw socket connection. The next example
below gives the client much more control over the remote serial port.

- The serial port settings are set on the command line when starting the
  program.
- There is no possibility to change settings from remote.
- All data is passed through as-is.

::

    usage: tcp_serial_redirect.py [-h] [-q] [--parity {N,E,O,S,M}] [--rtscts]
                                  [--xonxoff] [--rts RTS] [--dtr DTR]
                                  [-P LOCALPORT]
                                  SERIALPORT [BAUDRATE]

    Simple Serial to Network (TCP/IP) redirector.

    positional arguments:
      SERIALPORT            serial port name
      BAUDRATE              set baud rate, default: 9600

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -q, --quiet           suppress non error messages

    serial port:
      --parity {N,E,O,S,M}  set parity, one of {N E O S M}, default: N
      --rtscts              enable RTS/CTS flow control (default off)
      --xonxoff             enable software flow control (default off)
      --rts RTS             set initial RTS line state (possible values: 0, 1)
      --dtr DTR             set initial DTR line state (possible values: 0, 1)

    network settings:
      -P LOCALPORT, --localport LOCALPORT
                            local TCP port

    NOTE: no security measures are implemented. Anyone can remotely connect to
    this service over the network. Only one connection at once is supported. When
    the connection is terminated it waits for the next connect.


tcp_serial_redirect.py_
    Main program.

.. _tcp_serial_redirect.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/tcp_serial_redirect.py


Single-port TCP/IP - serial bridge (RFC 2217)
=============================================
Simple cross platform :rfc:`2217` serial port server. It uses threads and is
portable (runs on POSIX, Windows, etc).

- The port settings and control lines (RTS/DTR) can be changed at any time
  using :rfc:`2217` requests. The status lines (DSR/CTS/RI/CD) are polled every
  second and notifications are sent to the client.
- Telnet character IAC (0xff) needs to be doubled in data stream. IAC followed
  by another value is interpreted as Telnet command sequence.
- Telnet negotiation commands are sent when connecting to the server.
- RTS/DTR are activated on client connect and deactivated on disconnect.
- Default port settings are set again when client disconnects.

::

    usage: rfc2217_server.py [-h] [-p TCPPORT] [-v] SERIALPORT

    RFC 2217 Serial to Network (TCP/IP) redirector.

    positional arguments:
      SERIALPORT

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -p TCPPORT, --localport TCPPORT
                            local TCP port, default: 2217
      -v, --verbose         print more diagnostic messages (option can be given
                            multiple times)

    NOTE: no security measures are implemented. Anyone can remotely connect to
    this service over the network. Only one connection at once is supported. When
    the connection is terminated it waits for the next connect.

.. versionadded:: 2.5

rfc2217_server.py_
    Main program.

setup-rfc2217_server-py2exe.py_
    This is a py2exe setup script for Windows. It can be used to create a
    standalone ``rfc2217_server.exe``.

.. _rfc2217_server.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/rfc2217_server.py
.. _setup-rfc2217_server-py2exe.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/setup-rfc2217_server-py2exe.py


Multi-port TCP/IP - serial bridge (RFC 2217)
============================================
This example implements a TCP/IP to serial port service that works with
multiple ports at once. It uses select, no threads, for the serial ports and
the network sockets and therefore runs on POSIX systems only.

- Full control over the serial port with :rfc:`2217`.
- Check existence of ``/tty/USB0...8``. This is done every 5 seconds using
  ``os.path.exists``.
- Send zeroconf announcements when port appears or disappears (uses
  python-avahi and dbus). Service name: ``_serial_port._tcp``.
- Each serial port becomes available as one TCP/IP server. e.g.
  ``/dev/ttyUSB0`` is reachable at ``<host>:7000``.
- Single process for all ports and sockets (not per port).
- The script can be started as daemon.
- Logging to stdout or when run as daemon to syslog.
- Default port settings are set again when client disconnects.
- modem status lines (CTS/DSR/RI/CD) are not polled periodically and the server
  therefore does not send NOTIFY_MODEMSTATE on its own. However it responds to
  request from the client (i.e. use the ``poll_modem`` option in the URL when
  using a pySerial client.)

::

    usage: port_publisher.py [options]

    Announce the existence of devices using zeroconf and provide
    a TCP/IP <-> serial port gateway (implements RFC 2217).

    If running as daemon, write to syslog. Otherwise write to stdout.

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit

    serial port settings:
      --ports-regex REGEX   specify a regex to search against the serial devices
                            and their descriptions (default: /dev/ttyUSB[0-9]+)

    network settings:
      --tcp-port PORT       specify lowest TCP port number (default: 7000)

    daemon:
      -d, --daemon          start as daemon
      --pidfile FILE        specify a name for the PID file

    diagnostics:
      -o FILE, --logfile FILE
                            write messages file instead of stdout
      -q, --quiet           suppress most diagnostic messages
      -v, --verbose         increase diagnostic messages

    NOTE: no security measures are implemented. Anyone can remotely connect to
    this service over the network. Only one connection at once, per port, is
    supported. When the connection is terminated, it waits for the next connect.

Requirements:

- Python (>= 2.4)
- python-avahi
- python-dbus
- python-serial (>= 2.5)

Installation as daemon:

- Copy the script ``port_publisher.py`` to ``/usr/local/bin``.
- Copy the script ``port_publisher.sh`` to ``/etc/init.d``.
- Add links to the runlevels using ``update-rc.d port_publisher.sh defaults 99``
- That's it :-) the service will be started on next reboot. Alternatively run
  ``invoke-rc.d port_publisher.sh start`` as root.

.. versionadded:: 2.5 new example

port_publisher.py_
    Multi-port TCP/IP-serial converter (RFC 2217) for POSIX environments.

port_publisher.sh_
    Example init.d script.

.. _port_publisher.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/port_publisher.py
.. _port_publisher.sh: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/port_publisher.sh


wxPython examples
=================
A simple terminal application for wxPython and a flexible serial port
configuration dialog are shown here.

wxTerminal.py_
    A simple terminal application. Note that the length of the buffer is
    limited by wx and it may suddenly stop displaying new input.

wxTerminal.wxg_
    A wxGlade design file for the terminal application.

wxSerialConfigDialog.py_
    A flexible serial port configuration dialog.

wxSerialConfigDialog.wxg_
    The wxGlade design file for the configuration dialog.

setup-wxTerminal-py2exe.py_
    A py2exe setup script to package the terminal application.

.. _wxTerminal.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/wxTerminal.py
.. _wxTerminal.wxg: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/wxTerminal.wxg
.. _wxSerialConfigDialog.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/wxSerialConfigDialog.py
.. _wxSerialConfigDialog.wxg: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/wxSerialConfigDialog.wxg
.. _setup-wxTerminal-py2exe.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/examples/setup-wxTerminal-py2exe.py



Unit tests
==========
The project uses a number of unit test to verify the functionality. They all
need a loop back connector. The scripts itself contain more information. All
test scripts are contained in the directory ``test``.

The unit tests are performed on port ``loop://`` unless a different device
name or URL is given on the command line (``sys.argv[1]``). e.g. to run the
test on an attached USB-serial converter ``hwgrep://USB`` could be used or
the actual name such as ``/dev/ttyUSB0`` or ``COM1`` (depending on platform).

run_all_tests.py_
    Collect all tests from all ``test*`` files and run them. By default, the
    ``loop://`` device is used.

test.py_
    Basic tests (binary capabilities, timeout, control lines).

test_advanced.py_
    Test more advanced features (properties).

test_high_load.py_
    Tests involving sending a lot of data.

test_readline.py_
    Tests involving ``readline``.

test_iolib.py_
    Tests involving the :mod:`io` library. Only available for Python 2.6 and
    newer.

test_url.py_
    Tests involving the :ref:`URL <URLs>` feature.

.. _run_all_tests.py:  https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/run_all_tests.py
.. _test.py:           https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test.py
.. _test_advanced.py:  https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test_advanced.py
.. _test_high_load.py: https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test_high_load.py
.. _test_readline.py:  https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test_readline.py
.. _test_iolib.py:     https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test_iolib.py
.. _test_url.py:       https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial/blob/master/test/test_url.py
